ufw-allow: add page (#23299)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/ufw-allow.md

# ufw allow

> Allow traffic through the firewall.
> More information: <https://manned.org/ufw>.

> - Allow all traffic on a port:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow all traffic on port 22:
```

Reviewer 2: Both these are fine. It's up to the submitter to decide which one is better.

> `ufw allow {{port}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ufw allow {{22}}`
```
if above ^ is done

- Allow traffic for a protocol on a port:

`ufw allow {{port}}/{{protocol}}`

> - Allow incoming traffic for a protocol with a comment:

Reviewer 2: Does this match a comment in the traffic or is this a comment for documentation?

Author: It's just for the documentation and better readability of rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Allow incoming traffic for a protocol and add a comment for documentation:
```

> - Allow incoming traffic for a protocol and add a comment for documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow incoming traffic for a protocol with a comment for future reference:
```

Author: This is already re-written from:
`- Allow incoming traffic for a protocol with a comment:`
to 
`- Allow incoming traffic for a protocol and add a comment for documentation:`

upon suggestion.

`ufw allow in {{protocol}} comment '{{comment}}'`

- Allow all traffic from a source address:

> `ufw allow from {{source_address}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ufw allow from {{192.168.0.2}}`
```
Debatable, but I prefer suggestions for more complicated pages

Author: This suggestion conflicts with style guide:

> `If a command performs irreversible changes to a filesystem or devices, write every example in a way that cannot be copy pasted thoughtlessly.`

https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#special-cases

Though, the action is reversible by adding deny rule or deleting the whole rule, I would suggest having placeholders.

If you wish, I can make the last 2 commands to have **source address, destination address, and port.** (they already have protocol names included in the code description and commands)

Reviewer 2: Up to you. All are fine, but you seem to know the tool the best.

I'll go ahead and make a PR to the style guide to document the ways a placeholder can be used.

Reviewer 2: #23330

Author: To address the concerns of @CleanMachine1 I've updated the last 2 code descriptions & commands to:

```
- Allow TCP traffic from 192.168.1.12 to 192.168.1.100 on port 443:

`ufw allow from 192.168.1.12 to 192.168.1.100 port 443 proto tcp`

- Allow all incoming GRE traffic to 192.168.1.100 on the eth0 interface:

`ufw allow in on eth0 to 192.168.1.100 proto gre`
```

If this looks good, I'll go ahead and push the commit.

- Allow TCP traffic from a source address to a destination address on a port:

> `ufw allow from {{source_address}} to {{destination_address}} port {{port}} proto tcp`

Reviewer 2: It's probably better to have the proto at the beginning. That way they align character wise and they're unified with the order in the description.

Author: Actually, that is not allowed. 
We can't have `ufw allow proto gre in on {{interface}} to {{destination_address}}` for last command

> - Allow all incoming GRE traffic to a destination address on an interface (e.g., eth0):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow all incoming GRE traffic to a destination address on the eth0 interface:
```

> `ufw allow in on {{interface}} to {{destination_address}} proto gre`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ufw allow in on {{eth0}} to {{destination_address}} proto gre`
```
